## Research

#### Dissertation/book project

In my dissertation,

#### Work in progress

###### Mobilizing memories: The social conditions of the long-term impact of victimization.
Revise and resubmit at the *Journal of Peace Research*.

> Recent research has focused on the legacies of civil war violence on political preferences, finding that wartime victimization decreases support for the perpetrator or its political identity in the long run. However, we know little about the conditions under which this effect takes place. Historical accounts from civil wars suggest that the long-term effect of violence is not homogenous, nor consistent across areas within a single conflict. Addressing this gap, this article explores the effects of wartime victimization on long-term political preferences at the local level, looking at the conditioning effect of the local social context. In particular, I argue that the effect of wartime violence depends on the existence of local networks that create and maintain memories of the violence, and capitalize on them for future mobilization. This argument is tested in the context of the Spanish Civil War. I build a novel dataset using archival data, historical secondary sources, and already existing datasets, covering 2,100 municipalities across Spain. In line with the argument, it is found that Francoist wartime victimization during the civil war is linked to an increase in leftist vote share after democracy was restored four decades later, but only or mainly in those municipalities where clandestine, left-leaning political networks were active after the conflict.

###### Civilian victimization and ethnic civil war.
With Lars-Erik Cederman, Simon Hug, and Livia Schubiger. Under review.

> While many studies provide insights into the causes of wartime civilian victimization, we know little about how the targeting of particular segments of the civilian population affects the onset and escalation of armed conflict. Previous research on conflict onset has been largely limited to structural variables, both theoretically and empirically. Moving beyond these static approaches, this paper assesses how the state-led targeting of specific ethnic groups affects the likelihood of ethnic conflict onset, and the evolution of conflicts once they break out. Relying on a new dataset with global coverage that captures the ethnic identity of civilian victims of targeted violence, we find evidence that the state-led civilian victimization of particular ethnic groups increases the likelihood that the latter become involved in ethnic civil war. We also find tentative, yet more nuanced, evidence that ethnic targeting by state forces affects the escalation of ongoing conflicts.

###### Teachers as Fifth-Columnists: The Case of Fracoist Spain.
With Laia Balcells. Under review.

> Internal purges are a common phenomenon by which states attempt to elimi- nate political dissidents within their own ranks. However, partly because of their secretive nature and the absence of reliable data, we know little about the logic and dynamics of these purges. Who are the targets of these purges? When are they targeted? Previous literature on internal purges has mostly focused on physical repression of ongoing, behavioral dissent, or on intra-elite fighting and so-called coup-proofing. But, several questions about the internal repression of lower-rank members of the state remain open. In particular, why do state authorities persecute these individuals when they do not suppose a clear threat to their existence? Are macro-level political cleavages relevant to explain these purges?
>
> In this article, we attempt to answer these questions focusing on the purges of public school teachers during the first years of Francisco Franco’s regime in Spain. Already during the late stages of the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939), in the areas under their military control, Francoist authorities removed all public school teachers from service and forced them to go through a ‘purges commission’ should they wanted to work as teachers again. Using a secondary historical source that, to our knowledge, has not yet been exploited quantitatively, we explore whether teachers were more likely to be purged following the two main cleavages in 1930s Spain: the left-right divide and the center-periphery division. Our results suggest that while the war was still unfolding, purging was targeting mostly teachers from leftist (i.e. Republican) areas, which arguably corresponds to the military threat that was still present. Purges were an instrument to a potential security threat behind the frontlines. After the Francoists won the war, when the military threat was significantly lower, the purges targeted mostly teachers from national minority groups (e.g., Catalans, Basques). The purges were then not a response to a potential security threat, but a way to promote an assimilationist nation-building policy. Overall, our findings speak to the literature on state repression, suggesting that broader purges of low-rank state employees can constitute both an attempt to repress internal dissent and a nation-building tool.
